Hello everyone and welcome to the recursion interview problem solution for the first interview problem
.
Reversing a string using recursion remember you how to use recursion to solve this.
You can slice or use an iterative process.
As always there's a full solution's notebook that goes over the solutions with code and an explanation
in the contest at the solution yourself.
In this case it's in the folder under recursion and the recursion interview problems and then recursion
problems dash solutions.
You can click that folder it'll take you to all the solutions for all the interview problems.
In this case we're looking at reverse a string.
So we're going to go ahead and walk through the particular solution we have for this interview problem
.
So I was going to think about the problem what we have to do is reverse a string using recursion so
that phrase recursion we already know we need a base case and some sort of recursive case.
So let's go ahead and start filling that in.
We'll need a base case.
And notice I'm just thinking out loud with comments.
This is important to do during an interview.
You really want to make sure that your interview isn't just watching you perform silently or think silently
think out loud during the interview process.
So what I'm thinking right now is since I know I'm going to use recursion I'll have a base case and
a recursive case and let's go ahead and put a pass in here so we don't get an error when we run that
block.
So think about we want to do here.
If I have a string let's just say it's a b c.
I want to reverse this string which means I'm going to want to grab C somehow and then grab B and then
grab a and then add them up together.
But I want to do that in a recursive fashion so how can I do that.
Well we can start by thinking of the base case.
How would I know that I'm done for constructing this reverse string recursively.
I'll start out with C and then I'll have to do some sort of recursive call on the reverse function and
I'll pass and everything else that's remaining let's say ab and then that will eventually lead to and
this is just pseudo code to some sort of call on CA.
And then let's see B and then I'll have some single letter remaining No matter how long the string is
eventually at the end.
I'll just be adding one single element to that string as I reverse it.
So I know I can think about this as my base case being when I only have one element left in that string
so we can go in and fill that out.
I could say if the length of what string is in this case is less than or equal to one
or turn that string cause i know i'm done so already.
Just by thinking about it logically I can think that I have a base case when the length of my string
is what.
So I won't need to do any more recursion calls on it.
So now we can focus on the recursive case.
What do I actually want to return here.
So we think about this.
We want to grab the first element of the string
and in this case that will be as index 0 and we actually want to take it on since reversing it.
We want to tack on to the recursive call of the function in reverse.
In this case on the string but I don't want to do the whole thing.
I want to do on everything that wasn't in that first element.
So I want to do it from one index one all the way to the rest of string.
So let's go ahead and run this.
Make sure it works.
Or call reverse.
And here we go CBA.
Great.
So let's go ahead and work through this and make sure we understand what's actually happening.
First we check if we have a base case.
Is the length of the string less than or equal to one here.
And what I want to know is we could also just said check if it is equal to 1.
So we're checking if it's equal to one.
If it is then we know it's the base case and in some languages you may need to check if it's less than
or equal to 1 which is why I keep it here.
So then we'll return the last element of the string for every other case will pop off that first letter
.
So if we're just starting out will pop off a and then we'll attach it to the recursive call and everything
else which will then pop off B and then will pop off C..
So in this case what's happening recursively is I grab a and pop off B and C then on the next recursive
call.
I grab the puppet off from there and I remaining with C and then I see that see that element only has
a length for one.
So these little sections of string here.
Granted this is pseudo code I can make into real code by adding single quotes will then form the reverse
version of that string.
So as far as code this is actually very very simple which had a code out but it was really the process
of thinking about it thinking about what order this statement and this statement go in in order to have
the correct solution.
So again a walkthrough solution book.
Make sure you really understand the important parts here.
We're thinking about the base case.
What it would look like when you're versed in the string.
So don't worry if you had a little bit of trouble in thinking about the base case would look like.
It just takes a lot of practice and you do have to struggle with it for a bit since thinking about things
recursively doesn't come naturally to a lot of people so it's important to see a lot of examples.
Again if you're having trouble with it you can look through the example homework problems we did earlier
in this section of course.
Or go ahead and look up just basic recursion problems online through Google.
All right.
So again hopefully this was pretty straightforward as far as what the solution actually looked like
and make sure that both the base case and the recursive case makes sense to you.
As you review this problem.
All right.
Great job and I'll see you at the next lecture.